Add optional_host_permissions docs (#33811)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mozilla/add-ons/webextensions/manifest.json/optional_host_permissions/index.md

page-type: webextension-manifest-key
browser-compat: webextensions.manifest.optional_host_permissions
---

{{AddonSidebar}}

<table class="fullwidth-table standard-table">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Type</th>
      <td><code>Array</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Mandatory</th>
      <td>No</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Manifest version</th>
      <td>3 or higher</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Example</th>
      <td>
        <pre class="brush: json;">
"optional_host_permissions": [
  "*://developer.mozilla.org/*",
  "*://*.example.org/*"
]</pre
        >
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Use the `optional_host_permissions` key to enable runtime requests for access (access granted by the user after your extension has been installed) for the APIs in your extension that read or modify host data, such as {{WebExtAPIRef("cookies")}}, {{WebExtAPIRef("webRequest")}}, and {{WebExtAPIRef("tabs")}}. This key is an array of strings.

See [`host_permissions`](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/manifest.json/host_permissions) for more information on defining hosts.

> Use the {{webextapiref("permissions")}} API to ask for a permission. Asking for a permission may present the user with a dialog requesting they grant the host permission to your extension.

Reviewer: Since the method that the extension would call is named `request()`, I think we should use that verb for the operation performed by the developer rather than "ask."

```suggestion
Use the {{webextapiref("permissions")}} API to request an optional host permission at runtime. Requesting a host permission may present the user with a dialog asking whether they want to grant the permission to your extension.
```
